♪ [music] ♪
Now, when you click on your avatar,
you go to this URL, /account,
and of course it 404s. So let's
handle that now. Open up our routes,
index.js. Go to the bottom here and
we'll say, router.get('/account',).
And when somebody does that, we will take
our userController and we'll just say,
.account. Good. Now, let's open up our
userController, and we'll create a method
to handle that. So I'll say,
exports.account = (req, res). This is
simply going to be res.render, the
('account'), and the title will be 'Edit
Your Account'. Good. Now, we should see
that it cannot find the account views
file. Good. I'll open up our views
folder and create a view for that.
There we go. It works. Now, what do
we need? First, we need an .inner.
Then, we need a form with the action of
"/account". So we're going to post to
ourselves, and then we can start
making our Edit Account interface.
So I'll say, h2 Edit Your Account. We have
our form, which has a method of "POST",
and we have a label for the
"name", input name of "name",
and then the value is
going to be user.name.
Ah, okay. Interesting. Because
user is going to be passed to every
single request. We open up our
app.js and we'll say, locals.user.
What this is doing is it's taking the
req.user, which Passport will make
available to us, and we're passing the
user to our locals, which are all the
variables that our template is going to
have, and we're going to pass it along.
Now, before, that was just null,
because we were not logged in.
However, in this case, now that we have
req.user, which Passport gives us,
we can pass it along to our locals.
So we can give it user.name.
Let's just see if that works so far.
There we go. Name is Wes.
Good. I like it. Then, we'll have
label(for="email"), input(type="email"),
name="email", and value=user.email.
Then, finally, I'll have a Save.
Name, email, Save button. We don't have
password here. That's going to come
next. We just have Name and Email.
Those are the only two pieces of
information we have on our account right
now. Good. Now, if I were to change this
to Wesley and update my account, it's
404-ing. The reason why is because when
you visit your account, that's get.
But when you post the data,
that's router.post, and we don't have
a route to handle that just yet.
So we can go ahead, back to our index.js
here, and we'll go to our '/account' here.
First, actually, we need to make sure that
they're logged in before they can go to an
account URL. So we'll just say,
authController.isLoggedIn, and then
user.account. And that'll just make
sure that they're logged in before,
and then the redirect will kick in for us.
Now, we'll have router.post('/account',
and we'll run
userController.updateAccount.
Now, that's going to be using async/await,
so we can wrap it in catchErrors. Good.
So now, we need to make an updateAccount
method on our userController.
Go down here, exports.updateAccount.
We'll do async (req, res).
Now, what we need to do is take all the
data that the user has sent us and update
their account with it. But in this case,
we don't want to update the hash or
anything like that. So we're going to make
a separate variable of just called
updates. const updates =. And the name
might be updated, so req.body.name and
the email might be updated, so
email: req.body.email. Good.
Now, what we're going to do is we're
going to take our user model and call
findOneAndUpdate. And what that will do is
it's going to query for a specific user,
and then we're going to update
that actual user. So we'll say,
const user = await User, that's our model,
.findOneAndUpdate, and this will take
three things. We've used one similar
to this before. First, the query.
Second, the updates. And then, third, some
options, which it's going to allow us to
run the validators on it. Right?
So I'll start with the first one,
the query. I'm going to put these each on
their own line, because they can get a
little bit long. The query is going to
be based on the ID of the user.
So we can simply say the
_id is req.user. _id
and that's really important,
that you actually pull the ID
from the request, rather than
having the user give you their
ID. Because that could easily be monkeyed
with, and you don't want them actually
faking the ID. So req.user. _id, that's
the query. Second, the update is going to
be something called $set: updates, and
what that will do is it's going to take
this and set it on top of what already
exists in the user, because these are the
only two pieces of information we're
updating. Although, our user could have a
lot more data associated with it.
Then, third was the options,
which is going to be new: true,. That
means it returns the new actual user.
Second, runValidators is going to
be true, and that will make sure that if
the user is running any sort of monkey
business, that it's just going to run them
through all the actual validation steps.
And then context is going to be 'query'.
Context is required for Mongoose to
actually do the query properly.
If you want to look into that, it's a bit
boring. But it needs to be there.
Now, once we have that, let's just say,
res.json(user). I would like to just see
what the actual user is on. So go to our
user profile now, and I'll try to update
it to Wesley, Update My Account, and
ha-ha. There we go. We're automatically
sending back the user, and you can
see that the name is now Wesley.
But we don't need to send them to json.
What we really need to do is just say,
res.redirect and in this case we
could either do two things.
We could just say 'back' or we
could redirect them to '/account'.
It doesn't matter and if you say 'back',
it will just redirect you to the URL that
they came from. When that's helpful is
if this was ever working on multiple
endpoints, 'back' would just send them
right back to the other one that they
have. So let's refresh this, go to
Account, change this to Westerhoff,
go to save, and you can see
automatically Westerhoff is saved.
What we could do is
give ourselves a success,
req.flash('success',
'Updated the profile!').
So Wassssley, Update. Then,
we get our flash, Updated
the profile and we see the updated
pieces of information showing.
Good. One more thing I just wanted to show
you is that you always have this req.user
available to you. So what you could do is,
you could go to any one of these pages,
and you could do a quick dump,
pre= h.dump(req.user). Or no,
it's just user, because in this case
it's locals.user. And if you refresh,
you're going to see a dump of the actual
user and it's going to have the ID,
unique identifier, your name, and your
email. Of course, we're going to get into
a lot more with hearting our actual
stores. So that is editing our account.
Let's move on to the next piece, which
is creating a password reset flow,
if we've forgotten our password.
♪ [music] ♪